banned Al jazer gets shut down in Israel
just as Israeli forces move into Raa is
Italy's Prime Minister Georgia Maloney
out to turn state-owned television into
State controlled television and halfway
through India's 6- week long election
process we examine the narratives both
in the mainstream media and on the
social
side this last week offered a brief
moment of Hope for the approximately 1.5
million Palestinians trapped in Rafa
supposedly the last safe space for
civilians in Gaza Hamas had accepted the
terms of a ceasefire agreement it looked
like lives would be saved but on Tuesday
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu said
the proposal fell short of Israel's key
demands and now an assault on Rafa is
underway coinciding with all of this has
been the closure of alzer's news
Operation in Israel our news coverage TV
broadcasts and website are all blocked
there that measure May Shield Israelis
at least temporarily from the horrors
that are being inflicted on Rafa but it
will not stop this network from covering
the story what it does signal to the
world though and the Netanyahu
government's allies abroad is that
Israel's so-called democracy is not what
it's cracked up to be
the Israelis are trying to uh sort of
portray this kind of as like an endgame
that this is sort of the last Bastion
City in the Gaza Strip where they're
claiming that the military operation is
not complete until the army goes in with
troops to what they describe as
dismantling hamas's remaining
infrastructure the reality and practice
of this is that RAF is right now the
only hub for Palestinian life and
society and refuge for people who've
been displaced for the past 7 months
from the northern strip all the way down
to the
South Rafa was supposed to be the red
line that Israel would not cross its
forces have coralled around 1.5 million
Palestinians there more than half the
surviving population after 7 months of
punishing civilians with bombs and
bullets you can add another betrayal to
the mix having advised those civilians
to take refuge there the Netanyahu
government now calls Rafa the last
stronghold of ham
and within a day of rejecting a
ceasefire that Hamas had agreed to that
would have freed every remaining Israeli
hostage Netanyahu sent in the troops for
reasons that may be far more political
than
strategic so his desire to continue this
genocide is both because he's genocidal
but also because he is a survivalist and
he wants to make sure that he remains in
office the bigger issue is that it seems
to be that there are no red lines back
in March we heard President Biden say
but there's red lines that if he crosses
in the he cannot have 30,000 more
Palestinians dead as a and he very
quickly backtracked from that they've
made a mockery out of the international
legal system as we know it they've made
a mockery out of um out of the genocide
convention and the fact that Netanyahu
continues to be able to do whatever he
wants to do just shows you uh how
genocidal he is and how genocidal the
United States is as
well of the four interviews in this
piece you will notice that only one of
them is via webcam the one we did in
Israel we had no choice given that on
the eve of going into Rafa the Netanyahu
government banned Al jazer from the
Israeli Airwaves and from reporting from
there in announcing the police raids on
alzer's offices Israel's Communications
Minister called the network a threat to
Israeli security because it broadcasts
statements issued by Hamas what Al jazer
really is is a clear and everpresent
danger to the Israeli narrative it has
journalists on the ground in Gaza
documenting the story the way most
international news outlets cannot since
they have been locked out by Israel
Western news outlets forced to cover
Gaza at a distance have reported on the
Israeli Crackdown on Al jazer but in an
industry that usually stands up for its
own there has been a noticeable lack of
solidarity there Al jazer I think many
people uh if if they do watch it would
see it as some kind of propaganda they
would see the news media outside of uh
Israel is captive in a way to this
pro-israel narrative and they don't
consider Al jazer as one of their own so
Al jazer is othered because it is funded
by Qatar Netanyahu has attacked Qatar
even though it's instrumental in
mediating for a ceasefire so that's why
there is hardly a ripple of dissent
among foreign media but those of us who
need that diverse view of what's
happening in the Middle East know that
that is false the notion that by
broadcasting the statements of Hamas or
interviewing people that the Israelis
are designating as terrorists is
supporting terrorism means that you
don't actually believe in real
journalism you know I follow the
telegram feeds of the alassan brigades
the the armed wing of Hamas and because
I follow uh that feed in addition to
Israeli government feeds I have a much
more nuanced picture of what has
happened on the ground the fact is that
what they don't like about alzer's
coverage is that it has the audacity to
contradict the Israeli narrative or to
Simply do the job of Journalism while
the Israeli military and politicians
alike have been making these claims for
some time they have not been providing
the evidence needed to support them it's
not that Al jazer is advocating hamas's
position it's that Al jazer is allowing
people to make up their own
mind including benjam netanyahu's own
Minister of Justice who according to
reports in two Israeli newspapers relies
on alzer's coverage of Gaza the Israeli
authorities would do better to focus on
their own Airwaves the same government
that just shut down a News Network for
quote endangering Israeli soldiers has
no issues when a senior official in the
ruling lud party goes into an Israeli
News Studio talks about Palestinian
civilians in Gaza and comes out with
this when you live here seeing those
types of Clips is actually a daily
occurrence this this is not an
aberration we see almost daily uh
politicians make these making these
genocidal statements on television we
hear them on radio in print it happens
all the time we hear not just
commentator but sometimes the
journalists themselves making these
exact same
statements Israel is a country that is
in genocidal fever and the reason that
they don't want networks like jazer here
is because they don't want anybody
covering the genocidal fever that has
taken shape inside is and if you look at
Israeli media from the beginning of the
war it's basically been a cacophony in
support of the war there's this kind of
popular consent for creating this kind
of singular uh hegemonic narrative for
everyone to believe in to allow the
government and the Army to do whatever
it needs to and that coverage is
obviously not showing Israelis uh what
is happening to Palestinians on the
ground the number of people who are
being killed any testimonies of how that
war is being waged when that is your
media environment then you're having a
you're having society that is not able
to confront the realities of what their
country is
waging a society that likes to describe
itself as a democracy the only one in
the Middle East Israel is the only true
democracy uh in this region that is a
narrative Israel's government constantly
puts out there and it resonates with its
media allies abroad who venerate
Israel's democracy regardless of the
crimes against humanity that it commits
you're not Hamas Israel is a democracy
and as a Jewish State uh supports and
and believes in every life mattering and
so but since when have apartheid States
been considered true democracies just
because they hold elections and what
kind of democracy locks the global media
out of a war zone that has become a
slaughterhouse for civilians kills
journalists there at an unprecedent
ented rate and then bans one of the only
news channels that has its own reporters
in Gaza survivors risking their lives to
get the story out we need to talk about
that term democracy um Israel calls
itself a democracy its citizens think of
itself as a democracy but it isn't a
democracy at all you could call it an
ethnocracy with Superior rights to
Israeli Jews you could call it a
theocracy because it's captive to the
religious elements and religious leaders
and also the ministers that bring a uh a
farri Jewish interpretation of uh Jewish
law into uh the Israeli secular
context so this is not a democracy that
we're talking about perhaps nothing
unmasks that in a more powerful way than
that state which is supposedly the only
democracy in the Middle East waging a
genocidal war of extermination against
the Palestinians while simultaneously
trying to shut down the single most
important Network that is broadcasting
the other side of the barrel of the
Israeli gun that is being pointed at the
people of Palestine and fired non-stop
for seven straight months to the tune of
almost 35,000 confirmed deaths it serves
as a very powerful symbol of a narrative
based entirely on lies that somehow
there's some justifiable aspect to any
of
[Music]
this journalists at Italy's public
broadcaster R have gone on strike
salaries and working conditions are part
of it the bigger issue is political
interference and the politician they
accuse of that is prime minister Georgia
Maloney Tarak NAFA is here with more
well journalist at rise staged a walk
out over what their Union called
suffocating control by Georgia Malone's
Administration and an attempt to turn
the network into quote a mouthpiece for
the government the journalist union says
it wants to stop political appointments
in key editorial roles as well as the
censoring of voices and stories that do
not fit with the ruling coalition's
far-right agenda it's common for
governments in Italy to appoint
loyalists to top jobs at Ry but since
she took office in 2022 Maloney's
perceived interference in the
broadcaster has led some high-profile
presenters and managers to quit this
latest showdown between rise staff and
the government goes back to April 25th
Italy's Liberation day when a prominent
author Antonio scurati was scheduled
toer an anti-fascist monologue but just
hours before the show was meant to air
scurati was informed by Ry that his
appearance had been cancelled for what
the newspaper laua later revealed were
quote editorial reasons scara's words
were eventually read out by host at R
Serena Borton in an act of solidarity
for scurati and many others in Italy the
whole Affair was a blatant Act of
censorship one that fits into a wider
pattern from Malone's government which
is trying to remake the media as well as
cultural institutions in its own
political image journalists at the
public broadcaster speaking off the
Record say that for this government Ry
is a symbol of the so-called
dictatorship of the left they think if
they control the media they will change
the cultural narrative in Italy thanks T
India is halfway through an election
process a voting Marathon that lasts 6
weeks calling an election historic is a
bit of a cliche but this one really does
qualify should the ruling BJP and prime
minister Narendra Modi win it would be
the first Indian government to win
elections back to back to back with
three terms in office so the BJP is
throwing all it can at this campaign
Mod's face is everywhere there's been an
avalanche of BJP advertising and then
there are India's mainstream media
Outlets the overwhelming majority of
which are prooi the potential spanner in
the works is the messaging from a
collection of YouTubers putting out
explainers critiques and interviews all
questioning the bjp's otherwise dominant
narrative many are journalists who gave
up mainstream newsrooms for places in
the online ecosystem Akash bannery is
one of them he has 4 million followers
and his videos are racking up the views
Akash banery joins us now from New Delhi
Mr banery on the surface this election
looks like a done deal give us a sense
of what Narendra Mod's appeal to the
Indian electorate is built on well um to
begin with I wouldn't say that it's all
done and dusted um Indian elections tend
to be remarkably unpredictable while
Modi is definitely far up ahead things
change very rapidly in Indian politics
you see the Prime Minister a lot less
confident you see him going back to his
old tricks um so therefore I wouldn't
say it's done and dusted a lot of modi's
charm Charisma appeal comes from the
fact is that people really find
themselves attracted to this man who
seems to be in control whether or not he
is whether the data suggest that it's a
separate issue this is politics so that
is the charm which unfortunately for the
opposition no one comes even close to so
those people who are not very happy with
Narendra Modi at this point of time
they're not happy maybe what has
happened 10 years after his rule fine
he's the only guy around to vote for
among the people unhappy with Mod's rule
is the country's largest minority its
Muslim population over the years Modi
has left some of the ugly talk to his
proxies on that but recently in this
campaign he's been a little bit more
vocal and some of the things he's come
out with like this next bit uh sound a
little bit
dangerous so how do you explain this
change of tack by Modi the fact he's a
little more direct these days that is
the question if if there was one
question to be asked regardless of who
wins who loses this election the one
question to ask is what really happened
remember as you pointed out Narendra
Modi himself doesn't do the dog
whistling he has enough and more people
to do the dog whistling some Brazen
calls to violence some hints of genocide
being dropped here and there and
suddenly after the first phase of
election you see this man come back uh
into his old role
somewhere down the line the BJP has
understood that the campaign of progress
that India is on the right track India
has developed people have more money is
not really going to work and therefore
harking back to the fear psychosis of
the people majority versus minority 80%
versus 20% these 20% are going to expand
they're going to take away your space
your political space they'll become the
Prime Minister etc
etc the sad truth here is that this
tactic has never failed Narendra Modi it
has always yielded him good electoral
results so the so what he's doing he's
doing fully aware of what he's doing and
it may just work also for him we cannot
discuss politics in India without
talking about the mainstream media you
used to work in that sphere you've since
gone independent talk to us about how
media in India has been transformed in
the period of Narendra Mod's rule when I
joined uh television uh media in 2004
2005 and the there was a prora of new
television channels that were coming in
television was on a high uh it was the
aspirational job to be in and I thank my
stars that I quit in 2012 because what
has happened after 2014 is that the
gradual takeover of mainstream media has
happened uh by the BJP and there is a
term minology also that is used for the
mainstream media in India which is
called GOI media is basically a media
that sits in the lap of those in power
and what has happened is that that media
has really allowed Narendra Modi to take
on a force which is much larger than him
um you can imagine him as a senior of a
family where his decision should not be
criticized so no idea that he can come
up with can be a bad idea every idea is
a good idea and if it fails it's it's
it's the implementation so the media
really has allowed for the dumbing down
of the political discourse uh and
questioning of the opposition rather
than the questioning of the government
in power well you fled the mainstream
media space you've succeeded you now
have one of the country's most popular
YouTube channels as a YouTuber does
pressure still land on you in some ways
walk us through that
world so there are two levels of
pressure uh I think the easier level of
pressure uh is the direct level of
pressure uh so for example trolling in
India is an industry where you have
people literally sitting on rows and
rows of computer and doing work for a
political party uh and of course uh the
BJP really have the largest online
social presence and saying anything
against the establishment will really
result in voluminous uh and really toxic
abuse then comes the soft pressure uh in
terms of people reaching out to you
telling you subtly uh what are you doing
why are you just asking questions to the
government why don't you ask questions
to the opposition um and and subtle
hints would be dropped your way is that
do watch out uh uh you may have trouble
coming your way so that's a fear that
one lives in I mean somebody asks me uh
what's your business plan and I jokingly
tell them it's to stay out of prison uh
that's the plan um the worst of the
pressure indirect pressure that's going
to come in very soon are the kind of
regulations that are being brought into
effect already we have the new it
regulations which basically can allow
the government to pull down any YouTube
channel Twitter handle based on National
Security interest on top of that you
have a new broadcast bill which will
basically give the government a lot more
Powers over even YouTube channels if the
government or any of the citizens are
not happy with any report that we do
they can write to us and we are Duty
bound to answer within 24 hours so
technically they can bury Us in
paperwork with 500 complaints on a day
it's using the law against the people
who are trying to uh maintain the
Constitution trying to speak out for
laws and values and using that very same
law against them when we discuss
politics in India we do tend to let
audiences off the hook we don't really
hold audiences accountable for the
material that they seem so ready and
eager to consume what has the success of
Modi and the BJP revealed about how
gullible or perhaps ideologically
right-wing Indian news audiences really
are do you buy
that um that's one of the saddest Parts
actually um I I I come from a generation
of television that was degenerating then
I come from this last 10 years of
watching television and I always had
seen um uh the silent spectator the
viewer who earlier used to say oh what
is going going on on Indian television
oh this noise this hate that is going on
in Indian television had I had an
opportunity of watching something else I
would have the Prime Minister has
complete and remarkable Clarity on
issues it's only after doing independent
journalism doing a YouTube channel after
so many years one gets to understand is
those were just excuses nobody wants to
watch sensible news nobody wants to
watch just the facts the fact is that
while the government is pressurizing
mainstream media owning mainstream media
people also love watching this kind of V
bigoted content otherwise these channels
would have gone out of business what the
mainstream media what the government has
been able to do is to tap in into that
deep rooted bigotry that people have
within them exploit it enable it and
embolden people to go ahead and then
speak out what was inside them their
hearts so the fierce psychosis is is
being played full on and this election
will show us just how much fear uh you
can inject into people aash bannery
thank you so much for taking the time
and walking us through the politics and
the coverage of the Indian election
thank you for speaking to us today here
at the listening post thanks for having
me over and finally last week we
reported on the campus protest movement
in the US including at Colombia
University in New York where students
and faculty were demonstrating against
Israel's war on Gaza that same school
hands out pullitzer prizes one of the
most prestigious Awards in American
journalism and when it announced its
list of winners this past week one
organization stuck out the award for
international reporting went to the New
York Times for its quote wide- ranging
and revelatory coverage of hamas's
attacks on October 7th and Israel's
devastating response the paper W despite
multiple issues that audiences have
raised over the times's coverage of God
questions over terminology emphasis and
an Institutional pro-israel bias
typified by a now notorious
investigation that accused Hamas of
using systemic rape on October 7th
co-written by a former Israeli
intelligence officer with zero
journalistic experience that article was
thoroughly debunked and got all kinds of
push back in the times's own Newsroom
but that's award-winning journalism in
America the days we'll see you next time
here at the listening post